# Technical Glossary
A technical glossary for key words. These definitions are by no means exhaustive
but aim to be easy to understand and bite-sized for quick access.

Please open an issue with more key word suggestions :blush:

**Authentication** - the process of verifying that you are who you say you are
E.g. when you login to your email you use a password to authenticate your
identity. Other methods for authentication include using an ID card or
fingerprint/biometric method.

**Authorization** - check that you are authorised (have permission) to perform a
certain action or to see a given page. E.g. admin users are authorized to create
new users on the website.

**CSS Box Model** - the concept that in HTML all elements are contained within
rectangles or boxes. Each box consists of: margins, borders, padding, and the
actual content.

**Customer relationship management (CRM)** - a CRM system allows businesses to
manage business relationships and the data and information associated with them.
E.g. using CRM to track holiday bookings for a holiday bookings site. The CRM
would have information on the customer and the trip theyâ€™re planning/ have
booked and any staff members or actions that may need taking to progress or
confirm their booking.

**Create, Read, Update, and Delete (CRUD)** - CRUD refers to the 4 basic
operations you can perform on data in a relational database application. Create
a new data entry, read or retrieve existing data from the database, update the
value of an existing piece of data or delete an existing piece of data.

**Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)** - the set of rules for transferring files
(text, graphic images, sound, video, and other multimedia files) on the World
Wide Web. When you enter http:// in your address bar in front of the domain, it
tells the browser to connect over HTTP.

**Microservices** - the practice of running multiple web/application servers
simultaneously. It is a widely accepted/used application architecture used in
most companies. Lambda Functions are an example of a micro Node.js Server.   

**REPL (READ, EVAL, PRINT, LOOP)** - a REPL is an interactive toplevel or
language shell. A simple, interactive computer programming environment that
takes single user inputs (i.e. single expressions), evaluates them, and returns
the result to the user. They are a handy tool for experimenting with
functionality outside of the context of a project.

**Semantic HTML** - semantic HTML is the use of HTML elements that accurately
describe what they contain/are being used for E.g. a `<p>` tag indicates that the
text within it is a paragraph whereas a `<nav>` tag should contain navigation
content and a `<footer>` should appear at the end of the page.
